theory/glossary.md, before:

# Glossary and Notation

## Fields

- **$\Phi_c(x)$** - Consciousness field. Encodes intensity and topology of awareness.
- **$E(x)$** - Ethical field. Encodes teleological bias and ethical value.
- **$\Psi_\omega(x)$** - Oversoul field (optional extension, not in minimal framework).

## Parameters

- **$\eta$** - Ethics-collapse coupling. Small parameter ($\eta \ll 1$) in ethically-weighted Born rule.
- **$g_\phi$** - Higgs-portal coupling. Dimensionless coupling for scalar-Higgs interaction.
- **$m_c$** - Mass of consciousness field.
- **$m_E$** - Mass of ethical field.
- **$\lambda_c$** - Self-coupling strength of $\Phi_c$ field.
- **$\lambda_E$** - Self-coupling strength of $E$ field.
- **$\xi$** - Teleological coupling. Extremely small dimensionful constant.
- **$\gamma$** - Coupling between $\Phi_c$ and $E$ fields.

## Lagrangians

- **$\mathcal{L}_{\text{unified}}$** - Complete unified Lagrangian.
- **$\mathcal{L}_{\text{GR}}$** - General Relativity Lagrangian ($\frac{1}{16\pi G}(R - 2\Lambda)$).
- **$\mathcal{L}_{\text{SM}}$** - Standard Model Lagrangian.
- **$\mathcal{L}_{\Phi_c}$** - Consciousness field Lagrangian.
- **$\mathcal{L}_E$** - Ethical field Lagrangian.
- **$\mathcal{L}_{\text{int}}$** - Interaction terms.
- **$\mathcal{L}_{\text{teleology}}$** - Teleological bias term.

## Potentials

- **$V(\Phi_c)$** - Potential for consciousness field: $\frac{1}{2}m_c^2 \Phi_c^2 + \frac{\lambda_c}{4}\Phi_c^4$
- **$V(E)$** or **$U(E)$** - Potential for ethical field: $\frac{1}{2}m_E^2 E^2 + \frac{\lambda_E}{4}E^4$

## Measurement

- **$P(i)$** - Probability of outcome $i$ in ethically-weighted Born rule.
- **$c_i$** - Standard quantum amplitude for outcome $i$.
- **$E_i$** - Ethical weight label for outcome $i$.
- **$\Delta E$** - Difference in ethical weights: $E_1 - E_0$.

## Experimental Channels

- **QRNG** - Quantum Random Number Generator channel.
- **Higgs** - Invisible Higgs decay channel.
- **Fifth-Force** - Short-range gravity test channel.

## Constraints

- **$B_{\text{inv}}$** - Invisible Higgs branching fraction.
- **$\lambda$** - Yukawa force range.
- **$\alpha$** - Yukawa strength relative to gravity.

## Quantization

- **"Consciousons"** or **"qualia quanta"** - Quanta of $\Phi_c$ field.
- **"Ethions"** - Quanta of $E$ field.

## Canonical Variants

- **Canon-A** - Minimal MQGT-SCF (operational, testable).
- **Canon-B** - UTQOL Extension (full unified theory).

## Standard Notation

- **$G$** - Newton's gravitational constant.
- **$\Lambda$** - Cosmological constant.
- **$R$** - Ricci scalar.
- **$G_{\mu\nu}$** - Einstein tensor.
- **$T_{\mu\nu}$** - Stress-energy tensor.
- **$H$** - Higgs field.
- **$v$** - Higgs vacuum expectation value ($\approx 246$ GeV).

## Conventions

- Natural units: $\hbar = c = 1$
- Metric signature: $(-, +, +, +)$
- Spacetime indices: Greek letters ($\mu, \nu, \ldots$)
- Spatial indices: Latin letters ($i, j, \ldots$)

Commit message:

docs: link glossary to symbol index and note dev deps
- Add link from glossary to symbol index for quick reference
- Add dev environment section to CONTRIBUTING.md
- Note about dev deps determinism (future improvement)
- Add PHASE2_NOTES.md with quality checks

theory/glossary.md, after:

# Glossary and Notation

> **Quick Reference:** See [symbol_index.md](symbol_index.md) for a tabular index of all symbols with units and cross-references.

---

## Fields

- **$\Phi_c(x)$** - Consciousness field. Encodes intensity and topology of awareness.
- **$E(x)$** - Ethical field. Encodes teleological bias and ethical value.
- **$\Psi_\omega(x)$** - Oversoul field (optional extension, not in minimal framework).

## Parameters

- **$\eta$** - Ethics-collapse coupling. Small parameter ($\eta \ll 1$) in ethically-weighted Born rule.
- **$g_\phi$** - Higgs-portal coupling. Dimensionless coupling for scalar-Higgs interaction.
- **$m_c$** - Mass of consciousness field.
- **$m_E$** - Mass of ethical field.
- **$\lambda_c$** - Self-coupling strength of $\Phi_c$ field.
- **$\lambda_E$** - Self-coupling strength of $E$ field.
- **$\xi$** - Teleological coupling. Extremely small dimensionful constant.
- **$\gamma$** - Coupling between $\Phi_c$ and $E$ fields.

## Lagrangians

- **$\mathcal{L}_{\text{unified}}$** - Complete unified Lagrangian.
- **$\mathcal{L}_{\text{GR}}$** - General Relativity Lagrangian ($\frac{1}{16\pi G}(R - 2\Lambda)$).
- **$\mathcal{L}_{\text{SM}}$** - Standard Model Lagrangian.
- **$\mathcal{L}_{\Phi_c}$** - Consciousness field Lagrangian.
- **$\mathcal{L}_E$** - Ethical field Lagrangian.
- **$\mathcal{L}_{\text{int}}$** - Interaction terms.
- **$\mathcal{L}_{\text{teleology}}$** - Teleological bias term.

## Potentials

- **$V(\Phi_c)$** - Potential for consciousness field: $\frac{1}{2}m_c^2 \Phi_c^2 + \frac{\lambda_c}{4}\Phi_c^4$
- **$V(E)$** or **$U(E)$** - Potential for ethical field: $\frac{1}{2}m_E^2 E^2 + \frac{\lambda_E}{4}E^4$

## Measurement

- **$P(i)$** - Probability of outcome $i$ in ethically-weighted Born rule.
- **$c_i$** - Standard quantum amplitude for outcome $i$.
- **$E_i$** - Ethical weight label for outcome $i$.
- **$\Delta E$** - Difference in ethical weights: $E_1 - E_0$.

## Experimental Channels

- **QRNG** - Quantum Random Number Generator channel.
- **Higgs** - Invisible Higgs decay channel.
- **Fifth-Force** - Short-range gravity test channel.

## Constraints

- **$B_{\text{inv}}$** - Invisible Higgs branching fraction.
- **$\lambda$** - Yukawa force range.
- **$\alpha$** - Yukawa strength relative to gravity.

## Quantization

- **"Consciousons"** or **"qualia quanta"** - Quanta of $\Phi_c$ field.
- **"Ethions"** - Quanta of $E$ field.

## Canonical Variants

- **Canon-A** - Minimal MQGT-SCF (operational, testable).
- **Canon-B** - UTQOL Extension (full unified theory).

## Standard Notation

- **$G$** - Newton's gravitational constant.
- **$\Lambda$** - Cosmological constant.
- **$R$** - Ricci scalar.
- **$G_{\mu\nu}$** - Einstein tensor.
- **$T_{\mu\nu}$** - Stress-energy tensor.
- **$H$** - Higgs field.
- **$v$** - Higgs vacuum expectation value ($\approx 246$ GeV).

## Conventions

- Natural units: $\hbar = c = 1$
- Metric signature: $(-, +, +, +)$
- Spacetime indices: Greek letters ($\mu, \nu, \ldots$)
- Spatial indices: Latin letters ($i, j, \ldots$)
