docs/README.md, before:

# MQGT-SCF Documentation

**Start Here** — Navigate the theory, evidence, and implementation.

## What is MQGT-SCF?

MQGT-SCF (Merged Quantum Gauge and Scalar Consciousness Framework) is an effective field theory extension of the Standard Model and General Relativity that incorporates scalar fields encoding consciousness-like and ethical structures. The framework is formulated operationally, with testable predictions across multiple experimental channels.

## Quick Start

```bash
make install    # Install dependencies (reproducible)
make test       # Run test suite
make reproduce  # Reproduce results
```

> **Golden test verified:** 2025-12-28 (Python 3.14.1) — `make install` and `make test` pass on clean environment.

## Where to Read First

### 📘 Volume 0: Overview & Roadmap
**[MQGT_SCF_Volume_0_Overview.pdf](MQGT_SCF_Volume_0_Overview.pdf)** — Navigational front door to the complete research collection (~4,824 pages). Start here for the full corpus.

### 📐 Core Theory
- **[Lagrangian](../theory/lagrangian.md)** — Unified Lagrangian formulation
- **[Field Equations](../theory/field_equations.md)** — Field equations and dynamics
- **[Glossary](../theory/glossary.md)** — Notation and terminology
- **[Symbol Index](../theory/symbol_index.md)** — Quick reference for reviewers

## Reproducibility & Evidence

- **[Reproduction Script](../reproduce_all.py)** — One-command reproduction: `python reproduce_all.py`
- **[Data Constraints](../data/)** — Experimental data and constraints
- **[Code Implementation](../code/)** — Computational implementations

## How to Cite

**DOI:** [10.5281/zenodo.18012506](https://zenodo.org/records/18050570)

See [CITATION.cff](../CITATION.cff) for automatic citation.

## Questions & Issues

- **Bug reports:** Use [bug report template](../.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md)
- **Research claims:** Use [research claim template](../.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/research_claim.md)
- **Reproducibility:** Use [reproducibility report template](../.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/reproducibility_report.md)
- **Documentation:** Use [documentation issue template](../.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/documentation.md)

## Full Research Collection

The complete three-volume corpus (~4,824 pages) is available at:
- **Zenodo (DOI):** [10.5281/zenodo.18012506](https://zenodo.org/records/18050570)
- **Internet Archive:** [Full Corpus](https://archive.org/details/mqgt-scf-research-collection-full)

---

**Next Steps:** Read Volume 0 overview, then dive into core theory pages based on your interest.

Commit message:

docs: clarify Python version in golden test note
- Note that 3.14.1 may be development version
- Reference CI-tested versions (3.9-3.11) for reproducibility

docs/README.md, after:

# MQGT-SCF Documentation

**Start Here** — Navigate the theory, evidence, and implementation.

## What is MQGT-SCF?

MQGT-SCF (Merged Quantum Gauge and Scalar Consciousness Framework) is an effective field theory extension of the Standard Model and General Relativity that incorporates scalar fields encoding consciousness-like and ethical structures. The framework is formulated operationally, with testable predictions across multiple experimental channels.

## Quick Start

```bash
make install    # Install dependencies (reproducible)
make test       # Run test suite
make reproduce  # Reproduce results
```

> **Golden test verified:** 2025-12-28 — `make install` and `make test` pass on clean environment.  
> Python: 3.14.1 (main, Dec 2 2025) [Clang 17.0.0] — Note: This may be a development/pre-release version. For reproducibility, use Python 3.9-3.11 as tested in CI.

## Where to Read First

### 📘 Volume 0: Overview & Roadmap
**[MQGT_SCF_Volume_0_Overview.pdf](MQGT_SCF_Volume_0_Overview.pdf)** — Navigational front door to the complete research collection (~4,824 pages). Start here for the full corpus.

### 📐 Core Theory
- **[Lagrangian](../theory/lagrangian.md)** — Unified Lagrangian formulation
- **[Field Equations](../theory/field_equations.md)** — Field equations and dynamics
- **[Glossary](../theory/glossary.md)** — Notation and terminology
- **[Symbol Index](../theory/symbol_index.md)** — Quick reference for reviewers

## Reproducibility & Evidence

- **[Reproduction Script](../reproduce_all.py)** — One-command reproduction: `python reproduce_all.py`
- **[Data Constraints](../data/)** — Experimental data and constraints
- **[Code Implementation](../code/)** — Computational implementations

## How to Cite

**DOI:** [10.5281/zenodo.18012506](https://zenodo.org/records/18050570)

See [CITATION.cff](../CITATION.cff) for automatic citation.

## Questions & Issues

- **Bug reports:** Use [bug report template](../.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md)
- **Research claims:** Use [research claim template](../.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/research_claim.md)
- **Reproducibility:** Use [reproducibility report template](../.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/reproducibility_report.md)
- **Documentation:** Use [documentation issue template](../.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/documentation.md)

## Full Research Collection

The complete three-volume corpus (~4,824 pages) is available at:
- **Zenodo (DOI):** [10.5281/zenodo.18012506](https://zenodo.org/records/18050570)
- **Internet Archive:** [Full Corpus](https://archive.org/details/mqgt-scf-research-collection-full)

---

**Next Steps:** Read Volume 0 overview, then dive into core theory pages based on your interest.
